Nathan Elsensohn
ART175

Reading 1:
~~~~~~~

In this two-person roundtable between Daniel Birnbaum and Douglas Coupland, the two are of a shared opinion: that Virtual Reality--VR--is the next paradigm shift in tech and information. To quote Coupland, "VR is probably the most cosmic shift to the human psyche since movable type and printing," that this "shift" is so "cosmic" that a lack of being engaged with that experience can lead to an emptiness and ennui with reality, "post-VR sadness." A sort of extreme example, perhaps, but one that I myself can corroborate to a certain degree. It is highly easy to relate to what DB and DC say, that initial thoughts one have towards VR sets is that they look clunky and make the wearer look stupid...only to take the set for a spin and be blown away by the immersiveness. With that observation made, my experience is anchored to the world through the context of that explanation. VR is powerful, engaging, powerfully engaging stuff, and with that rapid development of tech it'll only improve and become even more adept at enrapture.      

While it certainly is par for the course for those in the tech field to keep faith in the sublimational power of emergent tech on humanity--everyone wants to be part of the next big thing and to wish that said Next Big Thing the paradigm shift that it is projected to be, which (interestingly enough) is an element that overlaps with the belief aspect of religion and mysticism--DB and DC consider it from several angles. They consider gallery applications, and ponder-cum-prophesy to what degree the entertainment industry will umbrella VR for their own profit as the industry competes amongst itself for pop cultural power. DB and DC understand that VR is innately powerful, perhaps concerningly so. Such immersion. So much data being outputted nearly directly into one's brain. Again, concerns that tie back into "post-VR sadness" and addiction. My speculation is that what happened with previous technologies, former "cosmic shifts," will cycle again with VR: emergent, viable VR will be quickly adopted by large businesses, i.e. the elites, and will remain a luxury of an experience until the inevitable streamling and downsizing of the tech happens. Ds B and C's consideration of how VR will affect art-for-art's-sake will also be subject to this. Virtual galleries, virtual artpieces, are easy enough to envision, and are already a reality to the varying degrees that a given artist utilizes VR in this contemporary age.  Immersive, detailed, accessible galleries, to the point of rendering a gallery obsolete,  "obsolete as a record store" (DB)?  That depends on a degree of downsizing that is yet to be achieved off in the future. 

Any possible concerns that DB and DC have towards the immersiveness and growth of VR are understandable. The true breadth of the positive and negative consequences will remain to be seen. What I understand is that as VR adapts and improves, so too must humanity adapt to such a powerful technology. 

