Nathan Elsensohn
ART175

Reading 4:
~~~~~~~

The translation of media to media, and how the conventions of one media can influence another.  Rossin's "Lossy" has digital images reinterpreted into painted media, but what about digital media that resembles painted media? Imagine it, rendered with so much detail that, if one chose to, to keep track of the virtual brushstrokes, or the virtual chips of an imagined digital knife. Such work, with such a vivid artstyle, or sheer amount of detailwork, would showcase the (virtual) hand of the artist at work. Now, with regards to the visibility of the artist's hand at work, it would seem as if the VR portion of Lossy certainly contains that hand-sculpted quality that permeates a hand-done, non-machine-sculpted work. What I mean by this is that some art has a sterile feeling, such as Disney's 3D animation, refined and fine-tuned to the point that the illusion of its existence is strong and lacks anything that resembles a personal touch.  Rossin's Lossy, from the paintings to the VR component, not only bears that "artist's touch," it also deals with absence, and the nature of this absence varies from individual piece.  

"5_Bulls," for instance, lacks an expected realism, lacks the context of the original digital imagery it was part of before it was reinterpreted into a painting. "After GTA V" has elements of traditional landscape painting, but lacks the traditional landscape itself. "After GTA V"'s components make the content of the painting seem like a flowing blob of color--an especially interesting shape, with a gradient spectrum of color and implied texture that keeps the eye busy. Through the loss of landscape, it becomes an engrossing take on the tradition. Then, "I Came And Went As A Ghost Hand:" instead of being a fully-realized VR experience, it is made up of bits and pieces to be observed from the POV telepresence, interacted with through a loss of greater control. The virtual elements bear detailed (but not too much so), deliberate textures, and through this the hand of the artist can be seen at work even in the virtual component of the show. 

The name, "Lossy," in retrospect, is suitable for the content of the show, and what it bears and does not bear. 